Subject: Semantic Web themamiddag, 7 juni 14:00
From: Lynda Hardman <Lynda.Hardman@cwi.nl>
Date: Tue, 28 May 2002 11:04:12 +0200
To: INFWETWG@NIC.SURFNET.NL


Graag wil ik dat mensen zich aanmelden <Lynda.Hardman@cwi.nl> wegens
het beperkte aantal stoelen in de zaal en het aantal
koffie/thee/borrels dat besteld moeten worden.

Graag deze bericht verspreiden aan geinteresseerden.



                    Themamiddag "The Semantic Web"
                         Vrijdag 7 juni 2002

                      Zalencentrum Hoog Brabant
                          Radboudkwartier 23
                           3511 CC Utrecht

                              Sprekers:
                       Guus Schreiber, SWI, UvA
                    Heiner Stuckenschmidt, AI, VU


The Web is not Well-Formed:
Issues in Developing a Web Ontology Language

Guus Schreiber, SWI, UvA

W3C has recently started a new working group to develop a "web
ontology language" (nicknamed "OWL") which should enable semantic
annotations of web resources in a more formal way than that provided
by RDF. In this talk I will look at the issues involved in
constructing such a language, using examples from a number of
semantic-annotation and -search studies.

The main problem is: how can a web ontology language support the
required expressivity while still keeping the language within
(decidable) logical limits. This is reminiscent of the old
neat-versus-scruffy debate in Artificial Intelligence.



Semantic Web Languages - Beauties or Beasts?

Heiner Stuckenschmidt, AI, VU

In this presentation, we discuss the current knowledge representation
languages that have been proposed in the context of the Semantic
Web. We take the aims of Semantic Web research as a starting point for
a critical survey of existing proposals. We point out the benefits of
languages such as DAML+OIL in terms of precise semantics and reasoning
support. Confronting these languages with the goals of the Semantic
Web, we argue that all current proposals still fail to meet some
essential requirements such as local containment and robustness of
semantics and reasoning, explicit representation of mappings between
distributed models and support for model extraction with minimal user
interaction. In the last part of the presentation, we will point out
research that explicitly addresses the problems mentioned above and
discuss the impact of this research on the development of next
generation Semantic Web Languages.


Agenda

13:30 Welkom koffie/thee
14:00 Guus Schreiber
15:00 pauze
15:30 Heiner Stuckenschmidt
16:30 Discussie
17:00 Borrel tot 17:30

                              ---***---

